# source-date-for-young-thick-disk-paper
Collection of processed data for young thick disk work

This repository includes the processed data that are presented in Lian et al. submitted in which we discover a young thick disk component in the Milky Way galaxy. The structure of the files are as following:

data_fig2: Scale height and surface luminosity density as a function of radius for the four mono-abunance populations (MAPs) examined in the paper that is shown in Figure 2. Dimensions in (4,14,5). First dimension is the four MAPs in an order of high-alpha, metal-rich low-alpha, metal-poor low-alpha, and solar metallicity low-alpha. Second dimension is radius, with radial range from 0 to 14 kpc with even interval of 1kpc. The last dimension represents the properties and associated uncertainties of the four MAPs at each radii, including average Galactocentric radius (kpc), scale height (kpc), scale height uncertainty (kpc), surface luminosity density (log(Lsun/pc^2)) and its uncertainty.  

data_fig3l: Scale height of MAPs in the solar radius as a function of age color-coded by [Fe/H] as shown in the left panel of Figure 3 in the paper. Dimensions in (12,17,3). First dimension is [Mg/Fe] from -0.1 to 0.5 with step of 0.05. Second dimension is [Fe/H] from -1.1 to 0.6 with step of 0.1. Third dimension includes the properties of each MAP along the young and old age-[Fe/H] sequences (see the definition in the paper), in an order of age (Gyr), [Fe/H], scale height (kpc) of the MAPs on the old sequence and of the MAPs on the young sequence. 

data_fig3r: Vertical velocity dispersion of MAPs in the solar radius as a function of age color-coded by [Fe/H] as shown in the right panel of Figure 3 in the paper. Dimensions in (12,17,3). First and second dimensions are the same as data_fig3l. Third dimension includes the properties of each MAP along the young and old age-[Fe/H] sequences (see the definition in the paper), in an order of age (Gyr), [Fe/H], velocity dispersion (km/s) of the MAPs on the old sequence and of the MAPs on the young sequence. 

data_fig4: Scale height and vertical velocity dispersion as a function of age for star particles with radial range 0<R<10 kpc. The measurement at 6<R<8 kpc is presented in Figure 4 in the paper. Dimensions in (5,43,3). First dimension is radius within R<10 kpc with interval of 2 kpc. Second dimension is age in Gyr in step of 0.25 Gyr within 8 Gyr and 0.5 Gyr between 8 and 14 Gyr. Third dimension includes the properties of mono-age populations at each radii, in an order of average age (Gyr), scale height (kpc), and vertical velocity dispersion (km/s). 

The APOGEE sample is selected from APOGEE DR17 (https://data.sdss.org/sas/dr17/apogee/spectro/aspcap/dr17/synspec_rev1/allStar-dr17-synspec_rev1.fits) with age and distance measurement taken from the astroNN value-added catalog (https://data.sdss.org/sas/dr17/env/APOGEE_ASTRO_NN/). The LAMOST sample is selected from the sub-giant catalog released by Maosheng Xiang (https://cdsarc.cds.unistra.fr/viz-bin/cat/J/other/Nat/603.599#/article).  
